# PENTA Pharama

### Personal Info.

### Khaled Yamout

Born and raised in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia a city that was raised from the barren sands of the desert. Originally from Lebanon, enrolled at the Oxford multinational school where the first steps towards higher education began. Passionate about acting and film since childhood, after graduating from high school traveled to Lebanon to persue an education in media studies at the Lebanese American University. In university learning so many skills and understanding progress in technology, observant that media in Lebanon was still in its most basic form. Graduated from (LAU) in 2014 to be able to continue studies abroad however, things did not go as planned. Obliged to stay, worked at an advertising company back in Riyadh where gaining work experience and profit took most of the focus from the real objective. Worked in different companies attaining a lot of knowledge and experience in how a business is run and what to expect from working in the media industry. After passing through many hardships, an understanding of what should happen next was initiating. Traveled back to Lebanon to begin work as a freelancer in media gave rise to time and new perspectives to work. After many attempts to finding a stable work environment, realized that in this country media was still in its most basic steps in becoming a proper industry with regard to global company standards. While having spare time, an interest in computers and technology begun. Learning the basics of what computers can do made it crucial to consider studying I.T. and all its aspects.

Student ID: s3805942

https://github.com/KhaledYamout/Profile

### Patrick Mugasa

My name is Patrick Mugasa, my student number is s3792796 and I’m a member of group 20 (Our name is Penta). I finished my high in 2012 and was admitted to study electrical engineering and computer science at the university of New South Wales (UNSW). I studied there for 2 years however, I did not finish my studies due to work commitment. During my studies I was introduced to a lot of IT fields from digital circuit design to programming in assemblies and other languages. I have some experience programming in different paradigms including functional and object oriented. I love programming as it helps me create some useful apps and among the languages I have learnt over the years include C, C#, Haskell, Java and Python. Recently, I decided to join RMIT to continue my studies in IT and I’m looking forward to finishing my studies. Studying at RMIT online helps me keep my job but study at the same time and this was the issue I had with my previous studies. My other interests in IT include networking and artificial intelligence. After finishing my degree in IT, I’m planning to be CCIE certified in both security and routing and switching. I’ve been told that CCIE is one of, if not the hardest exam in networking and I’m looking up to that challenge.  Apart from my academic life, I’m a bit introverted and love guitars. I’m currently learning how to play the guitar and my favorite artist is Erik Mongrain. When I’m not studying or working, I spend most of my time playing FIFA on my Xbox.

https://mugasa.github.io/IntroToIT1937-Assignment1/

### Tayla Surmon

Student ID: S3801846 Email: s3801846@student.rmit.edu.au 
My name is Tayla Jean Surmon I am 24 years old. I was born and bred in Cairns, Far North Queensland. I completed my year 12 certificate at St Marys Catholic College in 2012. During my years at high school I had the burning desire to move into higher education and complete a degree in occupational once I completed my year 12 certificate, however I put that on hold took a gap year and unfortunately didn’t follow that desire, instead found happiness in working as a gymnastics coach (which I had already been doing since 2007) . My Mum was born in Sydney, however had the opportunity to travel far and wide as her dad was a plane engineer. My Dad is from Papua New Guinea and moved to Sydney Australia at the age of 6. I have 3 Older brothers all of which were born in Sydney. My first and only spoken language is English, however I would like to learn Japanese in the future. Between 2016 and the beginning of 2019 I worked as an insurance broker and gained my Tier 2 in General Insurance Broking. Currently I am working in a bank and in the process of completing my Tier 2 in Banking. I have a dog named Bruce and a cat named Mitsy who I absolutely adore. Up until 2013 I was a Gymnast/Trampolinist and extremely enjoyed it. My early retirement from Gymnastics/Trampolining came in 2013 when I decided that my knees and body was no longer able to take the harsh impact of the sport. 7 years later I decided it was time to jump back into full-time study and am now in the process of completing my Diploma of Business (Financial Planning).

### Saad Alvi

Name: Saad Alvi
Student ID: S3799294

Since a young age I have been in the workforce. Slowly becoming more experienced with my work I noticed that I would need to educate myself beyond a high school level. Many of my problems arise from trying to learn how to maintain the business, keeping up with the finances and making critical decisions. At this stage of my life I found that the best thing for me would be to do a Bachelors course in Financial Planning. This would be helping me directly in my work. I decided to go through my options as I have to go in to work from Monday to Friday even the weekends sometime. Working nine to five can be a lot of work and trying to go into class would be near impossible. So I decided to take up Open University. This would help me work and I would still be able to do my course. After finishing my course I feel as if I would have a lot more skill set to bring into my future problems. I will be able to help myself personally and career wise

## Ideal Jobs

Our ideal jobs have many similarities and differences nonetheless, it is crucial to know what they are to realize each other’s objective. There are so many functions a computer can produce though, it all differs on what, how, and which job requires a certain outcome. For instance Tayla has experience in accounting, Commerce/Banking, and consulting or advising. In her case she would need to use a computer to organize all her work and save financial data and client information. As mentioned earlier a computer not only helps organize workflow and save data but can function to create and produce works of art. Khaled a film student utilizes the computer to edit videos and so much more. Recently studying I.T. and computer sciences made him recognize that coding and programing can help him achieve things in design that were not discovered yet in his previous studies. Patrick who has an interest in Networking would use a computer in order to configure routers, troubleshooting any problems with the network, WAP’s, and help in many other ways to improve and make sure internet is accessible and smooth.  


## Group Accomplishment


As the group progressed further into the I.T. course, they all learned and researched all sorts of information to enable them to carry out the projects at hand. The research and the information gathered gave the individuals working on the projects new insight on technology and to understand the potentials of each topic that was covered. The group was able to communicate and convey their ideas to one another using social media and other means of communications. Once communications were set up they all decided on dividing work-load equally and fairly so that everyone did the same amount of work and contributed to the project together. The main objective of the previous project was not only to research and gather information but, also to create an ideas for a new project that had potential of becoming a tangible and realistic assignment. After submission of the project the group had a chance on reflecting on group performance which would help everyone know their faults and allow them to improve as the individuals advanced further into the future projects to come. 

https://khaledyamout.github.io/Group-Profile-Penta/

## Plan for Group Project

PENTA is a well rounded group, with each individual having their own unique skills and experiences. If the group manages to put those skills together, they would be able to gather and create a project that would have a lot of great aspects that would be needed to make a project successful. The I.T. industry is a vast and expanding subject, there are so many things to work on and yet, it is a very challenging field to work on.

There are so many trends these days to work with but which trend would be the best choice to add or invest in? The answer would revolve around what the objective the project is moving towards. Some of the best trends are examples like; Mixed reality, A.I., IoT, Progressive web, Blockchains, and etc.  James R. (2019, 04, 25) 10 Software Development Trends in 2019. Retrieved from https://hackernoon.com/10-top-software-development-trends-a12d25f5fd2d.

A career plan needs to be carefully studied and prepped for. A project that needs to be developed would have to have a foundation to work on. A state would be knowing what the project is to begin with. Is it an app that would bring services to the people? Is it something that would be available on a website? Or is it an internal software for a company that would make work easier? A career plan needs to have the proper funding and most of all, people willing to go through with the project till the end even if it fails at first, because failure brings you closer to success.
The first assignments the group has worked on allowed the members of PENTA to understand the concept of team work and communications. Learning how to cooperate with one another was an important step to take in order to get work done.   


### Overview Topic

The proposed project is an idea that was developed from the last assignment. It was first thought of as a way to prevent drug addiction of prescribed medicine to people that are desperate. It then grew into being something more than just preventing them but, rather a way to assist citizens back to normal health. The outcomes of the project would not only be about preventing addicts from making their condition worse but it would give them another chance at becoming a part of society and going back to living good healthy lives.

After having the citizens rehabilitated, the program would keep a careful watch on their progress as they are released back into society. It not only stops them from going back to their addictions but it predicts their actions and will allow the intervention of the government before the citizen relapses into addiction.      

### Motivation

The motivation of the project is based solely on people’s health before anything. So many people have had their lives torn apart from being addicts and the rate is increasing in many places not just Australia. The project is important because if done correctly it can really have an impact on the lives of the people who are going through very though periods. It fits with I.T. trends as the program is live, meaning everything that is happening is being updated 24/7 automatically checking the progress of individuals and their medications. If the project were to actually launch there would be a significant change in how pharmacies all over the world operate. Understanding the importance of the project should allow an employer know that this project is crucial in the fight for keeping people from becoming addicts and getting them the proper help and support that is needed.        

### Landscape

There is a program that is similar in the sense that it tracks one’s prescription in a safe manner however, the program/app that the group is trying to create is actually quite unique. As for competition, there are no real rivals since the app or program would be the first of its kind. The only hard part is getting pharmaceuticals to actually use the program properly as they depend on people’s desperate need for prescriptions in order to make more profit. What truly makes the program unique is the affiliation of the government and how the program keeps live tracking of the addicts to help bring them back to health.       

Detailed Description of Project 

Devided into sections below.

### Aims
 In Australia the use of prescription drugs is an increasing problem. Pharmaceutical drugs have been the highest recurrent contributor to overdose deaths within Australia. Australians who are affected by the dependence of prescription drugs find themselves going from doctor to doctor and pharmacy to pharmacy every day to assist in feeding their addiction. In saying that, this project idea would need to be applied by pharmacists using a computer program that they all must. This program would provide them the ability to search using the customer’s details and find out where else they have been to collect this drug as well as when they last filled a prescription. This is a system that would need to be executed in every pharmacy in Australia and always be used to update the patient records of how often the drugs are being acquired and used. 
Our first aim should be establishing a team of software developers that can get together and start designs on this software/app. This will be a very big step because this will decide how our clients and the customers will perceive the actual software. Not only the presentation of the software and how user friendly it is but also how smooth it runs. This is actually the most critical step of the process.
Second step we should do is trial runs with local pharmacies that are willing to do it. We will keep trying until we polish all problems that will come such as glitches or better user face. Once this is done, we can move onto step three
This step will involve marketing. Marketing will be the second most important part of this process. I find it best since we will need all pharmacy to use this software so that we should first go to the government of the country and market it to them so it will be easier to cover all pharmacies. There are many softwares like this that help businesses use such as XERO for personal accounting or in the Educational industry there is VTREK. If we can get this contract, it will save us a lot of time and money of getting it out there. Especially since this is actually very needed in the industry since not only don’t other pharmacies know what was given to customers by other pharmacies but also doctors do not know if the customer has used their script or when they used the script, in case they horde their scripts which then they can abuse there drug use. In addition, this will help government monitor medical drug use. Such as XERO the accounting, software sends all details about the business to the Australian Tax Office. 
The final step will be the implementation of the software. We will have to make the move ontop our software easy and understandable. We would have to set up a support staff centre where clients can call up for technical issues also we will need it be able to run on all softwares. The initial start will be hard since it will be new software but once everyone settles down and learns the simple interface of the software, it will be easier.
 

### Plans and Progress

In Australia the use of prescription drugs is an increasing problem. Pharmaceutical drugs have been the highest recurrent contributor to overdose deaths within Australia. Australians who are affected by the dependence of prescription drugs find themselves going from doctor to doctor and pharmacy to pharmacy every day to assist in feeding their addiction. In saying that, this project idea would need to be applied by pharmacists using a computer program that they all must. This program would provide them the ability to search using the customer’s details and find out where else they have been to collect this drug as well as when they last filled a prescription. This is a system that would need to be executed in every pharmacy in Australia and always be used to update the patient records of how often the drugs are being acquired and used.
Not only is this a snowballing issue in Australia, but a worldwide issue which is a growing concern to all governments. A survey which was completed in 2013 found that 4.8% of Australian Adults were using prescription drugs for non-medical purposes. The amount of people in syringe and needle programs who have testified that the most recent drug they used to inject themselves with was a prescription opioid amplified from 7% in 2000 to 23% in 2015. This study also found that the 2 most commonly abused drugs were analgesics and sedatives. The reason these 2 drugs are the most commonly used is because they stimulate the reward section in the brain by increasing the level of dopamine neurotransmitter levels, which creates the feeling of pleasure and relief of dysphoria.
The first step towards getting this software running would be to sit down and talk about the requirements with all stakeholders involved, this will include functional and non-functional requirements. Once we have established our basic needs to develop the program we can move onto the actual development of it. In the meeting, we can decide the constraints and necessities required for the program to be viable. The meeting will cover everything from realistic development time, Government regulations, which a hired lawyer can guide us, a marketing team that will keep the program user friendly and the financial constraints of the entire project.
 The first step to developing the program would be to make sure it follows the three needs of any software which is availability/ Security and reliability. By implementing this service to pharmacies, they would all need to have a protected internet connection, which would be linked to a certain server, which is based in the cloud. This server would be available 24 hours a day 7 days a week. This system would work by all pharmacists (or pharmacist assistants) inputting the details of all of their clients and the drug that was prescribed to them. Yes, this may take a bit of extra time for the pharmacist or pharmacist assistant, however it would assist in decreasing the abuse of prescription drugs. As this would be a live system that would be hosted by a government agency, all the data that is entered into the system would be live as soon as it is entered, thus there would be no down-time. If an abuser is going from doctor to doctor and pharmacy to pharmacy this would be an excellent program to guarantee that abusers aren’t able to feed their addictions by abusing the medical professions, as they would be red flagged in the system.
Once we have made the program we would have to check if it is up to date with government regulations, which we would have to take to our lawyer, which would specialise in this matter. It will be a big step and many changes would be needed to get our final product. The lawyer will help us see where we stand before we present not only to the government but also to the public.
This type of service would necessitate each pharmacy to have a securely connected computer, which the government would make compulsory to operate. Unfortunately, this means that pharmacies would have to invest a bit of money and time into obtaining these specialised computers or they would be unable to remain operating. As this service is a program that would hold sensitive information about customers, it is highly important that the software development for this program is exceedingly secure. There are many skills and talents that would be essential to make this project an effective one. Everything from project managers, software developers and computer installers that have experience installing computers that have a secure internet connection. 
managers would need to have a lot of experience and knowledge in every area of network design. The software developers also need to have a lot of experience as they have to work together to create an extremely secure program that is to be run off the cloud. Not only does the program have to be secure to protect the confidential customer information, it also needs to be able to generate red flags when it sees there is a misuse or high use of prescription drugs. If this project idea was successful in being created it would have an enormous impact on the diverse communities in Australia, as it would see an instantaneous decrease in the prescription drug abuser community. This system will help ensure that patients are filling their prescriptions appropriately and at the recommended time by a doctor (for example, if a patient is prescribed an opioid drug, they are only able to refill this prescription every 30 days, therefore a red flag would be applied with a patient attempts to refill the script before then). This system would be one of a kind as it would be assisting with reducing the amount of prescription drug deaths and overdoses within the Australia community. This would then further assist doctors with being able to see those patients who truly need their care and attention and reduce the number of pointless visits from prescription drug abusers.
Once the program If this program is implemented across the globe, it will help a lot of people who are in desperate situations to get back to better health and to return from being dependent on drugs. As mentioned before the computer program would track customer’s prescription orders to limit their use of prescription drugs. As soon as a person is flagged in the system, a response to the situation would be to send a qualified person from a rehabilitation centre with authority from the government. Helping the citizens get back to health is a major part in keeping a community strong and most of all safe. Rehabilitation centres would have personnel ready for tracking and escorting the addict in need back to the centre where they would get the proper care and help. Those who are flagged by the program would be listed in “red” meaning; in need of help. After the addict has received the care and rehabilitation they require from the centre, they would be released back into society as “green” meaning they have been rehabilitated and are now trying to return to a normal life style. The live system would then keep track of their state to make sure they do not relapse. This information will also help doctors determine who the patients are and what to do with their condition.

We think the best way to implement this program into society would be to go through the government of the country. If we can make a regulation that every Pharmacist has to be using this program it will be easier then expecting everyone to be using the same program. Also we wouldn’t have to spend time marketing and wasting resources on unnecessary projects. Getting a government grant would be the most ideal way of getting this program to help the country. Also since it will be a government application it would make it easier for doctors and hospitals to attain this information helping the whole medical world come closer.


### Roles
Roles are specified and given to certain individual for many reasons. The first being that each person has skills that they have learned and these skill are used to perform different tasks and functions. For example a computer developer would be responsible for creating and developing programs/apps for the project. A marketing strategist for instance would know what is important in the market and would suggest the best way to make profits and what it the best way of being a part of the completion to stay at the top of the rivalry. Then there is a hardware specialist who can put all the hardware needed for the project together, someone who can maintain the machines responsible for the program’s output. There also has to be someone who could lead the team or a person who could manage a team can either be a leader or a manager. Everywhere we go roles can define what a person does so that people know who does what and why?

### Scope and Limits

Before developing the project, we plan to implement a prototype at a small scale to see its effectiveness and efficiency before committing to the project. We will employ a small group of software developers that will develop the application at a small scale. The application will be developed and deployed on a local machine with a small database containing the records of patients. The database will be small enough that we won’t be worried about performance. After developing the prototype, we will ask the developers to create test simulations to check its performance. We will then propose our idea to the local council and if we succeed, we will give it to the council to track prescription drug abusers. At this stage however, we will have limited access to the database that runs the application since it will be containing private information of the patients. If the app fails at this stage, we will ask the developers to improve it until its functional and if it succeeds, we will upscale it to the state level. The main problem that we will face during the upscaling is the hardware resources that will be needed. One of the solutions that we suggested was to use a cloud based system which allows upscaling and downscaling easy. The other solution was to build a server center but it would be costly in terms of construction and maintenance. Another issue with upscaling is the slow performance due to large data sets. To solve this problem, we intend to hire a computer scientist who is skilled in searching and sorting algorithms to optimize the performance of the app. We will keep upscaling it until it reaches the national level where it will track every patient and their usage of prescription drugs.

### Tools and Technologies.
The tools and technologies that we will use include a cloud computing service like Amazon web services (AWS) or Microsoft’s Azure. Both Microsoft and Amazon provide great services like the pay as you go service where you pay for the resources you use depending on how much you use i.e. there is no fixed cost of using the services, the cost depends on how much resources you use. Both of them provide great services but we will be using AWS as it is the oldest and most popular service today with a good reputation and is being used by companies like Netflix BMW and Airbnb. We will also be using a programming language to develop the app. I have a bit of experience in this field as I have done a few programming courses over the past years. I’ve programmed in different programming paradigms including sequential programming, object-oriented programming and functional programming. I’ve also done some assembly but I don’t think it would be applicable in this scenario. Some of the languages I’ve learnt include Java, C, C#, Python, Haskell, and lisp. All these are useful in their own way but in this case, we will be using an object-oriented language. The reason being, it is easy to design a system using object-oriented design concepts like UML class diagrams.

### Testing
We will test the app by creating simulations that will test the app for bugs and functionality. We will use both whitebox and blackbox tests with emphasis on blackbox testing as the people who will be using the app will having no knowledge of the inner workings of the program. We will also employ people to create simulations for testing, at least 1000 test cases. This would shorten the time it takes to create big data sets to feed into the program. We will then give a prototype to the council to use while also collecting data. We will then use the data to further test the program for bugs but also create more test cases in addition to the data. After this stage, we will test it on the state level. We will ask the state to give us feedback on the performance of the program. From this feedback, we will be able to see its performance in the real world and we will think of ways to improve on it. At this stage, since the state is large and contains more people than the council, the main issue we will be facing will be the performance of the program in terms of its time complexity. We will use the data obtained from the state to test the performance. We will keep on testing the program on different levels until it reaches the national stage where it will be used on a large scale. The national stage will be the final stage and will be an indication that we have succeeded. From here, the only thing that we will have to do is to maintain the program according to the feedback we get from its performance.

### Time Frame
The estimated time for a project like this one can’t really be predicted however, as for the work it’s going to take, it will take a long time to get things running smoothly. In regards to development and having a working system, it would take at least 2 years to even try and test the project. It takes time for a good project to take form that’s why it needs a time frame where pressure can’t get in the way unless it is funded by people who give the project a time limit. A project like this one however needs to have developed its first arrangement ready for testing in the first stages until it can go further into full development.   

### Risks
No project comes without risks or obstacles but, that is what makes a project’s success so much more relieving once it is operational and effective. There are many risks that this project can encounter. One of these risks is having the program get crash reports and errors everywhere but that is what the testing phase is there for. There are other more hazardous risks such as an electrical fire that can go very wrong and burn all the work that has been done. That is why the project needs to have a backup plan and have all data saved in other backup storages. There is also the risk of sabotage and stealing, that is why a project need to have a good foundation and is known to have its protection against frauds and people who wish harm to a project. Then there is risk of funding being pulled out, where the project will come to a halt until there is further funding for equipment and research. So many things could happen that can be unexpected but the best thing is to be prepared for all situations especially if the project has people lives and reputation on the line.     

### Group Procedure and Coms

A very important aspect of working with a group of individuals is team work. How well does each person work with the other? Knowing each other’s skill sets and trying to combine them to make an ideal well-oiled machine that can do tasks efficiently. Communicating and understanding one another is another very important part of working in a team as it is crucial to know what each person thinks. Sharing one’s opinion and ideas will allow the group to grow as it would give rise to new ways of doing things in a project. Communications and following up with one another is significant because it help the group stay updated with everything they do. Knowing who does what, when, and how, will aid the team in knowing how to organize their work and scheduling their time appropriately to the tasks at hand. All in all the team needs to be prepared for all the obstacles they must face and they must face them together or it would be very difficult moving forward with dysfunctional members.        


## Skills & Jobs

Once the project has the funding and has gone through the first steps of evolving into an executable project. It is time to choose the members that would turn this project into a reality. Each individual should have a certain skill that would contribute to the project in their own unique way. As proposed the starting numbers of the project would be 4. Starting with the 1st, this person would possess skills such as Computer software/hardware building, someone who could put it all together. The next member would be a person with skills such as development and software maintenance, a person who could further develop and program to keep it working. The 3rd person would be someone who can understand the market and where the project would most likely succeed. For that, we would need a sales/marketing specialist who would know how to really sell our project and comprehends the project’s goals while also keeping in mind how to make the most profit. Now a days the best way to show your work is through media, for the fourth, picking someone with a creative mind that could take the project to the screens. This person would need to be skillful in all aspects of media especially social media. Knowing how to make this project standout is something that is crucial in its success. Together these members would be a great combination of all that is necessary to keep this project going.           

## Group Reflection
After working on two assignments together, the group has learned to cooperate together to divide the tasks equally to get things done. Some of the members of PENTA though were not able to give contributions for reasons that are unknown or for reasons that were put to light and group dealt with the situation fairly and accordingly. The good thing is that group was able to come together even in the last few days before the due date and got to work giving ideas and contributing in their own ways. What could be better is that the group needs to acknowledge the time they have towards a project and work on it before it is late and rushed. Learning to cooperate together online is one of the things that this group has learned to work with. Through social networking the group was able to communicate and work together on assigned tasks.     
